---
layout: post
title: Recruiting Fall 2026 PhD Students @ Georgia Tech CSE — Machine Learning, Computer Vision and AI for Medicine/Science
date: 2025-10-20
description: phd recruting
tags: phd gatech GeorgiaTech CSE AI
tabs: false
---


Hi, I’m Jiayun (Peter) Wang 👋. I will join [Georgia Tech CSE](https://cse.gatech.edu/) as an Assistant Professor in 2026. I am actively recruiting PhD students starting Fall 2026.  
🔗 PI website: [https://pwang.pw/](https://pwang.pw/)
🔗 Lab website: TBA
📧 peterw@caltech.edu
## Background

I am currently a senior research scientist at Accenture GenAI, working on multimodal LLMs and agents. I am also affiliated with Caltech, where I did my postdoc on physical AI, working with [Anima Anandkumar](http://tensorlab.cms.caltech.edu/users/anima/). Before joining Caltech, I completed my Ph.D. at UC Berkeley on computer vision, advised by Prof. [Stella Yu](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~stellayu/). My research lies at the intersection of machine learning, computer vision, and AI for medicine/science.
Some recent research highlights:
-   ML with minimal human supervision – self-supervised learning from unlabeled data for recognition, detection and geometry.
-   Efficient AI algorithms – theory-driven model designs leveraging data structures like orthogonality and recurrence.
-   AI for Medicine and Science – multi-modal diagnosis with LLMs and computational imaging.
    

## Recruiting Information

I actively look for PhD students for Fall 2026 at Georgia Tech CSE. The school participates in five [Ph.D. programs](https://cse.gatech.edu/phd-programs). I will mainly consider students for the following PhD programs: CSE, CS and ML. If you are interested in building next-generation machine learning and vision models and/or applying AI to biomedical and scientific problems, I’d love to hear from you! Please also [apply to corresponding PhD programs](https://grad.gatech.edu/admissions).

## Future Lab Directions

### 1️⃣ Core ML and Computer Vision Methods
-   Multi-modality, e.g. vision+X, multimodal LLMs
-   Generative models and representation learning
-   3D vision, world model, VLA, physical AI
-   Physics-aware ML and simulation-based learning
    

### 2️⃣ Applications to Biomedicine and Science
-   Inverse problems, computational imaging and medical imaging
-   Multimodal data integration, e.g. electronic health records (EHRs)
-   AI+simulation, physics and other scientific applications
    

## Why Join Us

-   Work at the intersection of core ML, computer vision and real-world impact.
-   PI has abundant experience in real-world applications, physical AI/sim2real, interdisciplinary collaboration and mentoring experience.
-   Collaborate across Georgia Tech’s AI, computing and science ecosystems.
-   Get hands-on experience in both theoretical ML and applied domains like computational imaging and real-world applications.
-   Engage with a growing network of collaborators at Caltech, Berkeley and beyond.
-   Strong connections with industry, supporting students for internships, co-advising, and industrial collaborations.
-   Abundant computing and infrastructure (lab has its own 8x Blackwell 6000 96GB GPU, A100/H100 GPU server; gatech HPC like [PACE](https://pace.gatech.edu/)).
    
If you’re passionate about developing foundational AI models that can understand, generate, and discover across modalities and scientific frontiers — you’re warmly welcome to apply to Georgia Tech CSE!

📩 Feel free to reach out peterw@caltech.edu with your CV, transcript and a short note about your research interests.